The use of various types of the assegai was widespread all over Africa and it was the most common weapon used before the introduction of firearms. The Zulu, Xhosa, and other Nguni tribes of South Africa were renowned for their use of the assegai.
 
Shaka of the Zulu popularized the use of the shorter stabbing spear with a 610 mm (24 in) shaft and a larger, broader blade 300 mm (12 in) long in warfare, which was traditionally used primarily as a hunting spear. This weapon is otherwise known as the *iklwa* or *ixwa*, after the sound that was heard as it was withdrawn from the victim's wound.[3][4] The traditional spear was not abandoned, but was used to range attack enemy formations before closing in for close quarters battle with the iklwa. This tactical combination originated during Shaka's military reforms. This weapon was typically used with one hand while the off hand held a cowhide shield for protection.
 
**Download ✵ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SU1](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SU1)**


 
The Zulu produced at least 20 different types of spear. Perhaps the best known of these is the assegai, which was also used by several other Nguni groups in Southern Africa. It was a throwing spear (javelin) as can be seen from the narrow, leaf-shaped blade and long, slender tapering shaft. The conventional assegai, such as this one, is light and around 1.8m long (as tall as a man). In the hand of a skilled thrower, its range was 60-70m. Several assegai were carried in the left hand, behind the shield, and thrown one by one, prior to charging.
 
As the Zulu nation expanded, the warrior-leader Shaka (c.1787-1828) ordered all assegai be returned to the smiths to be melted down and re-forged into a new type of stabbing spear, iklwa, which had a shorter shaft and broader, more triangular blade. Under Shaka's successor, Dingaan, the throwing spear was reinstated and ultimately the two types of spear were used together in combat to good effect.
 
The composition of these weapons, added to the warrior's skill in using them, helped the Zulu become a potent military force; Zulu iron usually contained significant quantities of charcoal from the smelting process, so the finished blades possessed some steel-like qualities in terms of durability, resistance to rust, and the ability to keep a hard edge or point.
 
Two Zulu assegai spear heads, dating to the 19th century. They are made of steel with leaf shaped blades, and have attractive hammered patterning to the heads and shafts. Originally these would have been attached to longer wooden shafts. They have an attractive aged patina and have not been over cleaned.
 
Early iklwa or assegai stabbing spear pre colonial period or earlier. Very sharp early leaf shape spear point bound to a hardwood shaft using wrapping then final binding with cow tail. Lovely long smooth polished shaft.
Length of spear head: 210mm
Length of cow tail binding: 90mm
Total length of spear: 1430mm

I ask because I intend to run a Bronze-Age campaign, and by making iron rare and steel almost impossible to acquire, swords and polearms (except the rhomphaia, which looked like a naginata with a slightly shorter haft) are mostly off the table.
 
It's too short to be a pike, too long to be an effective hand-to-hand slashing weapon, too heavy to be a javelin, not heavy enough to be a polearm, and poorly balanced for a lance. It's a classic simple weapon that anyone can make, but anyone skilled can make a better weapon more fit for whatever purpose you had in mind.
 
If everything was equal there would be little point if having lots of weapons, you would just have generic weapons (which is something I have actually advocated in the past) such as generic two-handed martial weapon and generic two-handed simple weapon with stats for each and the player left to describe that weapon as whatever they wish. But outside of doing that, something has to suck. And simple weapons have to suck compared to martial weapons.
 
But also historically appropriate. The history of weapons technology is not one of novelty for its own sake, but improved ways to kill other people. Maxim didn't invent the machine gun just to be perverse, but because the slow rate of fire of the 19th century repeating rifles wasn't effective enough. The repeating rifles were invented because single-shot breech-loaders weren't effective enough. The breech-loaders were invented because the earlier muzzle-loading flintlocks weren't effective enough. Flintlocks were invented because matchlocks weren't reliable and so weren't effective enough.Go far enough back and you see that swords and halberds were invented by people who didn't think spears were effective enough. Go far enough forward and you see that Teller invented the H-bomb because the A-bomb wasn't effective enough.
 
Shaka is often said to have been dissatisfied with the long throwing "assegai", and is credited with introducing a new variant of the weapon: the "iklwa", a short stabbing spear with a long, sword-like spearhead ... 
The throwing spear was not discarded but used as an initial missile weapon before close contact with the enemy, when the shorter stabbing spear was used in hand-to-hand combat.
 
Robert Jordan had the Aiel of the Wheel of Time, modeled on the Zulus. There is a d20 version of the Aiel around somewhere. And "what he said", several martial weapons are just better versions of the spear. The concept of the Aiel was that they were originally complete turn-the-other-cheek pacifists, but this became distorted over time to just having an aversion to using swords.
 
Also, the bronze age rules in Pathfinder Ultimate Combat aren't really fair to bronze, which was NOT easy to work and which was as good or better than the early iron weapons. Iron was easier to work, good bronze took more effort. The switch to iron was more an economic decision.
 
Anyway, a skilled smith, by Pathfinder rules, could make magical bronze weapons which would then fix the fragile issues. Fragile is a little bit of a wierd category anyway. Obsidian and stone shatters. Metal frequently bends instead of breaking and can be repaired. Lay it flat and straighten it out.
 
Interesting. I would argue the opposite, actually; spears and spear-like weapons are generally much better than swords in pathfinder, as reach is the strongest property a weapon can have. Longspears are the only simple reach weapon, so becomes the weapon of choice for reach clerics, and although most martials are probably not optimal with a spear, some of the strongest possible builds (especially for the early game where you can reliably one-shot things) use a Lucerne hammer or Naginata or other pokey-metal-bit-on-end-of-long-stick based weapon.
 
I'd suggest that Iron was/is somewhat harder to work with than bronze (much higher forge temperatures are needed), but it's also much more readily available and you could outfit more soldiers with iron weaponry than you could with bronze weaponry, and since there wasn't much difference in the effectiveness it's clear which has the advantage. Thelemic\_Noun wrote: Don't forget what killed Jesus Suffocation? Seems slightly irrelevant. AUC.register('auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay'); AjaxBusy.register('masked', 'busy', 'auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay', null, null) thejeff Mar 10, 2017, 06:44 am 1 person marked this as a favorite. This is why I've always wanted spears to be more effective in PF.
 
According to the story, he was stabbed in the side with a spear. While crucifixion usually killed by suffocation, it would be hard to "[give] a loud cry and [give] up the ghost" if the guy was suffocating. AUC.register('auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay'); AjaxBusy.register('masked', 'busy', 'auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay', null, null) David knott 242 Mar 10, 2017, 08:15 am 1 person marked this as a favorite. Pathfinder Maps, Starfinder Adventure Path, Starfinder Maps, Starfinder Roleplaying Game, Starfinder Society Subscriber; Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Superscriber I am pretty sure that Jesus was stabbed with a spear after his death, by a soldier who was surprised that he had died so soon.
 
Asphyxiation? I think you may need to re-read your Gospels, sir. AUC.register('auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay'); AjaxBusy.register('masked', 'busy', 'auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay', null, null) Orfamay Quest Mar 10, 2017, 08:31 am 1 person marked this as a favorite. parsimony wrote:

Anyway, a skilled smith, by Pathfinder rules, could make magical bronze weapons which would then fix the fragile issues. Fragile is a little bit of a wierd category anyway. Obsidian and stone shatters. Metal frequently bends instead of breaking and can be repaired. Lay it flat and straighten it out. Fragile weapons can be repaired as well -- a fragile item may gain the "broken" condition, which can be removed using the same Craft skill that was used to make the item. What's weird? AUC.register('auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay'); AjaxBusy.register('masked', 'busy', 'auc\_MessageboardPostRowDisplay', null, null) Davia D Mar 10, 2017, 08:35 am 7 people marked this as a favorite. Orfamay Quest wrote: Well, historically, the spear wasn't a very good weapon, which is why people tended to stop using spears as soon as there are any alternatives.
 
It's too short to be a pike, too long to be an effective hand-to-hand slashing weapon, too heavy to be a javelin, not heavy enough to be a polearm, and poorly balanced for a lance. It's a classic simple weapon that anyone can make, but anyone skilled can make a better weapon more fit for whatever purpose you had in mind. Historically, spears are the most dominant weapon on the planet. Swords were mere sidearms, hand to hand slashing weapons were rarely main battlefield weapons. Greek Spartans and Samurai alike had spears as their main battlefield weapons, Chinese leavies, etc.. Pikes length was mostly to deal with the specific problem of 