**Introduction**: One of the most familiar stories in the Bible is found in Daniel 6 which picks up where Da 5:31-note left off with **Darius the Mede** beginning his reign. Just as God had predicted through the dream He gave Nebuchadnezzar, the head of gold, Babylon, was removed and the body and arms of silver, the Medo-Persians, now have been established as the dominant world empire (Da 2:21-note, Da 2:32-note, Da 2:39-note) Judah has been in exile 70 years in Babylon (Da 9:2-note). Daniel is an old man in his 80's (**Chronological Structure of Daniel**). This chapter marks the end of the "historical" (or narrative) section of Daniel and prepares us for the great prophecies in Daniel 7-12, prophecies that form the "back bone" or foundation for all other Biblical prophecies dealing with the last days that precede and terminate in the **Second Coming** of the Messiah.
 
behold, I will send and take all the families of the north, 'declares the LORD,' and I will send to **Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, My servant,** and will bring them against this land (**Note:** This teaches the important and at times confusing principle regarding **God's use of evil** -- At this time Nebuchadnezzar was a violent, ruthless, evil despot. God is not the source of evil, but He is able in His sovereign rule and His omnipotence to utilize evil to accomplish His purposes), and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations round about; and I will utterly destroy them, and make them a horror, and a hissing, and an everlasting desolation. 10 'Moreover, I will take from them the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones and the light of the lamp. 11 'And this whole land shall be a desolation and a horror, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon **seventy years**. 12 'Then it will be when **seventy years** are completed I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation (**Note**: Fulfilling the prophecy in Daniel 2 that the Head of Gold would be followed by the body and arms of silver, Medo-Persia),' declares the LORD, 'for their iniquity (Same prophecy in Isa 13:17), and the land of the Chaldeans; and I will make it an everlasting desolation. (Jer 25:9, 10, 11, 12)
 
**Download 🗸 [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SNx](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SNx)**


 
Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, the LORD (Jehovah) stirred up the spirit of **Cyrus king of Persia**, so that he sent a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying:
 
Archaeology has substantiated the Biblical record (as if the Word of Truth needed any validation!) with the discovery of the famous **Cyrus cylinder** written in 538BC. On this cuneiform cylinder Cyrus recorded his capture of Babylon and his program of repatriating the conquered peoples to their homelands writing..
 
From [Babylon] to Aššur and (from) Susa, Agade, Ešnunna, Zamban, Me-Turnu, Der, as far as the region of Gutium, the sacred centers on the other side of the Tigris, whose sanctuaries had been abandoned for a long time, I returned the images of the gods (See Cyrus' words in Ezra 6:5 - "utensils of the temple of God"), who had resided there [in Babylon], to their places [including Jerusalem] and I let them dwell in eternal abodes. I gathered all their inhabitants and returned to them their dwellings.
 
sets before us the example of a man who possessed the "invisible means of support," the "inner resources" that gave purpose to his life, molded his conduct, and sustained him in adversity. Contemporary man would do well to study again this well-known episode and learn the secrets of living happily in a stress-filled society. (Campbell, D. Daniel God's Man in a Secular Society - well written, practical, recommended)

**Darius - Who is this Darius? Darius the Mede** ruled from 539-525BC and thus overlapped with the rule of Cyrus (539-530BC). Although it is by no means a consensus, many scholars identify **Darius the Mede Gubaru**, a general in Cyrus' army who led the forces into Babylon. Note in the table below Darius the Mede is not to be confused with Darius I (the Great).
 
**Be in charge of the whole kingdom -** The New American Bible renders this interpretatively as "to safeguard his interests" which is a reasonable interpretation in view of the next statement that "the king might not suffer loss." (Da 5:2) Such a position would be responsible to prevent loss from military revolts, tax evasion, fraud, etc
 
**Of whom Daniel was one** (KJV rendering gives a slightly different sense - "of whom Daniel was first") - Daniel presumably was in the party room the night of the overthrow of Babylon and had been given a purple robe and a gold necklace which would cause him to stand out as royalty, not to mention that he was now the third ruler in Babylon! And yet Daniel survived. God's man is immortal until God has fulfilled His purposes in and through that man. God never leaves Himself without a witness, whether in positions of power or in the lower echelons of society.
 
**Then** - (**Always stop interrogate** **expressions of time like "then"**) **When?** When his behavior was compared and contrasted with these other men. Darius recognized that Daniel was a rare jewel, a man of integrity among a crooked and perverse generation. **Integrity** as someone has said "is the first step in true greatness." (C. Sommons)
 
It is worth noting that one of the meanings of the corresponding Hebrew word (**nasah** - 05329 - to be pre-eminent) is brightness or brilliance! Indeed, Daniel's spirit shone brightly in the darkness reminiscent of Paul's exhortation to believers "to be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you appear as lights in the world." (Phil 2:15-**note**)
 
Webster's 1828 says **distinguish** means "to ascertain and indicate difference by some external mark. The farmer distinguishes sheep by their ears. To separate one thing from another by some mark or quality." Daniel was separated from the other commissioners and satraps by his excellent spirit.
 
**Integrity** (from "**integer**" = the whole of anything, a whole number not a fraction - think "**whole character**" not a fraction of one!) speaks of the unimpaired state of one's mind and heart, of moral soundness and purity, of incorruptness, of uprightness, of honesty. Just as we would talk about a **whole number**, so also we can talk about a **whole person** who is **undivided**. A person of integrity is living rightly, not divided, nor being a different person in different circumstances. **A person of integrity is the same person in private that he or she is in public.** Integrity has the same root word as does the word integrated. A leader of integrity has taken the principles that govern his life, internalized them, and integrated them into every area of his life. Integrity is not like a weathervane that changes direction with every shift of the social winds, as Daniel will soon dramatically demonstrate.
 
**Newton** notes that "Integrity describes a person whose thoughts and private behavior are consistent with their outward profession. The Christian leader with integrity is a person whose heart is set on loving and obeying God, no matter what the cost." (Newton, G. C. Growing toward spiritual maturity. Biblical essentials series. Wheaton, Ill.: Crossway Books.)
 
**1828 Webster's** - **Integrity** comprehends the whole moral character, but has a special reference to uprightness in mutual dealings, transfers of property, and agencies for others. (**How's your "integrity quotient"**?) Integrity is an unimpaired condition or soundness, adherence to a code of moral values, and the quality or state of being complete and undivided. See also honesty. Integrity means soundness, completeness, honesty.
 
**He leaves them also his repute**. Men think all the better of us as the sons of a man who could be trusted, the successors of a tradesman of excellent repute. Oh, that all young men were anxious to keep up the family name!
 
**Above all, he leaves his children his prayers and the blessing of a prayer-hearing God,** and these make our offspring to be favored among the sons of men. God will save them even after we are dead. Oh, that they might be saved at once!
 
Satan does not need to accomplish much to destroy integrity. Because integrity has to do with wholeness, even a small chink destroys it. Integrity is a true 24/7 concept. Consistently right choices create (or reveal) integrity. One evil choice creates a fault line of potential catastrophe.
 
Do you have singleness of heart, of mind, of vision, of purpose? That's integrity. Paul said it this way "**one thing** I do: forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead, 14 I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. (Php 3:13,14) Integrity manifest a single heart, a single mind, a single eye, a single focus - **ONE THING** - Integrity presses on toward the goal!
 
"What enables a person to persevere is integrity. Integrity means that we are able to live without compromising what God has made us to be. Integrity enables us to stay on course, instead of panicking and bailing out. Integrity is strengthened through repeated tests. The trials God sends purge us of sin and enable us to mature in integrity." (R C Sproul)
 
The Puritan writer **Thomas Watson** might as well have said the following of Daniel - The plainer the diamond the more it sparkles. The plainer the heart is the more it sparkles in God's eyes. (**Does you heart "sparkle" in His eyes?** cp 2Chr 16:9)
 
A **clear conscience** is a prime benefit of integrity, and it enables one to stand firm when the storms of life come upon us. If your h