Juno Moneta, an epithet of Juno, was the protectress of funds, and, accordingly, money in ancient Rome was coined in her temple. The word "moneta" (from which the words "money" and "monetize" are derived) was used by writers such as Ovid, Martial, Juvenal, and Cicero. In several modern languages, including Russian and Italian, *moneta* (Spanish *moneda*) is the word for "coin".
 
**DOWNLOAD ····· [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SLh](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SLh)**


 
"Moneta" retained the meanings of "money" and "die" well into the Middle Ages and appeared often on minted coins. For example, the phrase *moneta nova* is regular on coins of the low countries and the rhineland in the fourteenth and fifteenth century, with the "nova", Latin for "new", not necessarily signifying a new type or variety of coin.[3]
 
Depicted as a beautiful and benevolent goddess, Lakshmi is commonly seen in Hindu homes through imagery that often shows the goddess draped in a bright red and gold saree holding an overflowing pot of gold, sat on a fully bloomed lotus that is flanked by a couple of white elephants.
 
Revered for the spiritual and material gifts she bestows on her devotees, millions of Hindus worship the goddess Lakshmi daily. Every Friday, thousands of Hindu women worship the goddess, seeking immeasurable blessings and good fortune. Regarded as a giver of wealth, knowledge, courage, and enlightenment, Lakshmi is a protector and preserver of life on Earth.
 
One of the most captivating stories in Hindu mythology is the rebirth of Lakshmi after the Churning of the Milky Ocean, which is a story that underlines how Lakshmi blesses good fortune and plenitude to those willing to work hard and sincerely. To bring back the goddess from the depths of the milky ocean and restore the power of gods to the world, the gods and the demons began churning the ocean. For more than 1,000 years, these two mighty powers continued to churn; finally, Lakshmi appeared. With her powers of fortune and success, the gods defeated the demons.

To celebrate and invite the goddess into their homes, Hindus often buy jewellery, either an ornament or a gold coin or bar, on Diwali or Lakshmi Pooja; many also perceive buying gold, particularly gold bars or coins depicting Lakshmi, as an auspicious beginning to a blessed and plentiful year.
 
All information contained on or available through this website is for general information purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. Please note that certain products, storage and delivery services will be dependent on the type of account you hold. Bullion markets can be volatile and the value of Bullion may fluctuate depending on the market value of precious metals. As such, investments in Bullion involve a degree of risk, which may make them unsuitable for certain persons. Before making any investment decision, you may wish to seek advice from your financial, legal, tax and accounting advisers. You should carefully consider the risks associated with investing in Bullion, taking into account your own individual financial needs and circumstances. Investments in Bullion should only be made as part of a diversified investment portfolio and investment advice should be sought before any investment is made. The historic financial performance of Bullion is not indicative of and does not guarantee future financial performance. For further information please read our Investment Principles
 
\* Bullion product prices displayed include the precious metal price and any applicable premium. Any promotions or discounts are applied to the premium above the precious metal price only and not on the metal price itself.
 
Within the goddess-oriented Shaktism, Lakshmi is venerated as the prosperity aspect of the Mother goddess.[14][15] Lakshmi is both the consort and the divine energy (*shakti*) of Vishnu, the Supreme Being of Vaishnavism; she is also the Supreme Goddess in the sect and assists Vishnu to create, protect, and transform the universe.[8][15][16][17] She is an especially prominent figure in Sri Vaishnavism, in which devotion to Lakshmi is deemed to be crucial to reach Vishnu.[18] Whenever Vishnu descended on the earth as an avatar, Lakshmi accompanied him as consort, for example, as Sita and Radha or Rukmini as consorts of Vishnu's avatars Rama and Krishna, respectively.[11][15][19] The eight prominent manifestations of Lakshmi, the Ashtalakshmi, symbolise the eight sources of wealth.[20]
 
Lakshmi is depicted in Indian art as an elegantly dressed, prosperity-showering golden-coloured woman standing or sitting in the padmasana position upon a lotus throne, while holding a lotus in her hand, symbolising fortune, self-knowledge, and spiritual liberation.[21][22] Her iconography shows her with four hands, which represent the four aspects of human life important to Hindu culture: *dharma*, *kāma*, *artha*, and *moksha*.[23][24] The Lakshmi Sahasranama of the Skanda Purana, Lakshmi Tantra, Markandeya Purana, Devi Mahatmya, and Vedic scriptures describe Lakshmi as having eight or eighteen hands, and as sitting on Garuda, a lion, or a tiger.[25][26][27] According to the Lakshmi Tantra, the goddess Lakshmi, in her ultimate form of Mahasri, has four arms of a golden complexion, and holds a citron, a club, a shield, and a vessel containing amrita.[28] In the Skanda Purana and the *Venkatachala Mahatmayam*, Sri, or Lakshmi, is praised as the mother of Brahma.[29]
 
Archaeological discoveries and ancient coins suggest the recognition and reverence for Lakshmi existing by the 1st millennium BCE.[30][31] Lakshmi's iconography and statues have also been found in Hindu temples throughout Southeast Asia, estimated to be from the second half of the 1st millennium CE.[32][33] The day of Lakshmi Puja during Navaratri, and the festivals of Deepavali and Sharad Purnima (Kojagiri Purnima) are celebrated in her honour.[34]
 
Lakshmi is a member of the Tridevi, the triad of great goddesses. She represents the Rajas *guna*, and the Iccha-shakti.[46][47] The image, icons, and sculptures of Lakshmi are represented with symbolism. Her name is derived from Sanskrit root words for knowing the goal and understanding the objective.[36] Her four arms are symbolic of the four goals of humanity that are considered good in Hinduism: *dharma* (pursuit of ethical, moral life), *artha* (pursuit of wealth, means of life), *kama* (pursuit of love, emotional fulfillment), and *moksha* (pursuit of self-knowledge, liberation).[24][48]
 
In Lakshmi's iconography, she is either sitting or standing on a lotus and typically carrying a lotus in one or two hands. The lotus carries symbolic meanings in Hinduism and other Indian traditions. It symbolizes knowledge, self-realization, and liberation in the Vedic context, and represents reality, consciousness, and *karma* ('work, deed') in the Tantra (Sahasrara) context.[49] The lotus, a flower that blooms in clean or dirty water, also symbolises purity regardless of the good or bad circumstances in which it grows. It is a reminder that good and prosperity can bloom and not be affected by evil in one's surroundings.[50][51]
 
Lakshmi Sahasranama of Skanda Purana, Lakshmi Tantra, Markandeya Purana, Devi Mahatmya and Vedic scriptures describes Lakshmi as having eighteen hands and is described as holding rosary, axe, mace, arrow, thunderbolt, lotus, pitcher, rod, sakti, sword, shield, conch, bell, wine-cup, trident, noose and the discus in her eighteen hands.[25][26][27]
 
In some representations, wealth either symbolically pours out from one of her hands or she simply holds a jar of money. This symbolism has a dual meaning: wealth manifested through Lakshmi means both materials as well as spiritual wealth.[49] Her face and open hands are in a mudra that signifies compassion, giving or *dāna* ('charity').[48]
 
Lakshmi typically wears a red dress embroidered with golden threads, which symbolizes fortune and wealth. She, goddess of wealth and prosperity, is often represented with her husband Vishnu, the god who maintains human life filled with justice and peace. This symbolism implies wealth and prosperity are coupled with the maintenance of life, justice, and peace.[49] When Lakshmi and Vishnu appear together in images and statues, she is significantly smaller, which is often used to portray her devotional status as a wife. A frequently depicted scene of the pair illustrates Lakshmi massaging Vishnu's feet.[63]
 
In Atharva Veda, transcribed about 1000 BCE, Lakshmi evolves into a complex concept with plural manifestations. Book 7, Chapter 115 of Atharva Veda describes the plurality, asserting that a hundred Lakshmis are born with the body of a mortal at birth, some good, *Punya* ('virtuous') and auspicious, while others bad, *paapi* ('evil') and unfortunate. The good are welcomed, while the bad urged to leave.[64] The concept and spirit of Lakshmi and her association with fortune and the good is significant enough that Atharva Veda mentions it in multiple books: for example, in Book 12, Chapter 5 as *Punya Lakshmi*.[65] In some chapters of Atharva Veda, Lakshmi connotes the good, an auspicious sign, good luck, good fortune, prosperity, success, and happiness.[2]
 
Later, Lakshmi is referred to as the goddess of fortune, identified with Sri and regarded as the wife of *Viṣṇu* (Nārāyaṇa).[2] For example, in Shatapatha Brahmana, variously estimated to be composed between 800 BCE and 300 BCE, Sri (Lakshmi) is part of one of many theories, in ancient India, about the creation of the universe. In Book 9 of Shatapatha Brahmana, Sri emerges from Prajapati, after his intense meditation on the creation of life and nature of the universe. Sri is described as a resplendent and trembling woman at her birth with immense energy and powers.[64] The gods are bewitched, desire her, and immediately become covetous of her. The gods approach Prajapati and request permission 